# **Machine Learning Projects for Beginners**
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This section has cool machine learning projects that newcomers in the domain of machine learning should try. These are basic machine learning projects that you can learn quickly.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1)**Zillow Home Value Prediction ML Project**:
Consider a situation where you want to buy a house or sell a house, or you are moving to a new city and want to rent a house, but you don’t know where to start. Sometimes, it happens that you know where to start, but you doubt the credibility of the source. Well, some people from Microsoft also felt the need of creating a reliable place that could provide all this information online, and “Zillow” was born in 2006. A few years later, Zillow introduced a feature called “Zestimate”, which has completely changed the market. Zestimate is a tool that provides the worth of the house based on various attributes like public data, sales data, etc. Zestimate has information of more than 97 million homes.
In this Machine Learning project for final year students, you will use the Zillows Economics dataset to build a house price prediction model with XGBoost based on factors like average income, crime rate, number of hospitals, number of schools, etc. Having completed this top ML project, one should be able to answer questions like top States with highest rent Values, in which state should you buy/rent a house, Zestimate per square feet, the median rental price for all homes, etc.

2)**BigMart Sales Prediction ML Project - Learn about Unsupervised Machine Learning Algorithms**:
As a beginner, you should work on different machine learning projects ideas to diversify your skillset. Thus, we have added a project that will introduce unsupervised machine learning algorithms to you by using the sales dataset of a grocery supermarket store.
**Project Idea**: BigMart sales dataset consists of 2013 sales data for 1559 products across 10 different outlets in different cities. The goal of the BigMart sales prediction ML project is to build a regression model to predict the sales of each of 1559 products for the following year in each of the 10 different BigMart outlets. The BigMart sales dataset also consists of certain attributes for each product and store. This model helps BigMart understand the properties of products and stores that play an important role in increasing their overall sales.

3)**Music Recommendation System ML Project**:
This is one of the most popular machine learning projects and can be used across different domains. You might be very familiar with a recommendation system if you've used any E-commerce site or Movie/Music website. In most E-commerce sites like Amazon, at the time of checkout, the system will recommend products that can be added to your cart. Similarly on Netflix or Spotify, based on the movies you've liked, it will show similar movies or songs that you may like. How does the system do this? This is a classic example where Machine Learning can be applied.
**Project Idea**: In this project, we use the dataset from Asia's leading music streaming service to build a better music recommendation system. We will try to determine which new song or which new artist a listener might like based on their previous choices. The primary task is to predict the chances of a user listening to a song repetitively within a time frame. In the dataset, the prediction is marked as 1 if the user has listened to the same song within a month. The dataset consists of which song has been heard by which user and at what time. Use classification machine learning algorithms to solve this classification problem and as a challenge, try using deep learning algorithms like neural network.
